Explore Python syntax
Python is a flexible programming language used in a wide range of fields, including software development, machine learning, and data analysis. Python is one of the most popular programming languages for data professionals, so getting familiar with its fundamental syntax and semantics will be useful for your future career. In this reading, you will learn about Python’s syntax and semantics, as well as where to find resources to further your learning.

The Language of Python
People use language to communicate and give instructions to each other. Computers do the same thing, except computers use languages like Python, C++, and Java. So, in order to communicate instructions to the computer, programmers need to arrange ideas and concepts into a language it will understand.

Python syntax includes words that represent objects and commands, as well as punctuation that gives the words structure, hierarchy, and context. Together, the words and punctuation communicate ideas and processes; this is known as semantics. Semantics is the meaning conveyed by the syntax. The best way to learn syntax and semantics is through exposure. Practice coding and become familiar and comfortable with reading other people’s code. In addition, there are some general conventions that practitioners use to help maintain stylistic uniformity within the language. 

Coding languages are similar to spoken languages in that they have a way to classify words according to their function. For example, English sentences are composed of nouns, verbs, prepositions, etc. Here are some of the basics:

Variables: Represent data stored as strings, tuples, dictionaries, lists, and objects (note: future readings explain these categories)

Keywords: Special words that are reserved for specific purposes and that can only be used for those purposes

in
not
or
for
while
return

Operators: Symbols that perform operations on objects and values

+
- 
* 
/ 
** 
% 
// 
> 
< 
==

Expressions: A combination of numbers, symbols, and variables to compute and return a result upon evaluation

Functions: A group of related statements to perform a task and return a value

def to_celsius(x):
   '''Convert Fahrenheit to Celsius'''
   return (x-32) * 5/9


to_celsius(75)

Conditional statements: Sections of code that direct program execution based on specified conditions

number = -4


if number > 0:
   print('Number is positive.')
elif number == 0:
   print('Number is zero.')
else:
   print('Number is negative.')

As you’ll surely discover, Python generates syntax errors for incorrectly used keywords and syntax.

	Example: 

print(This will throw an error because I didn’t make it a string.)

Naming rules and conventions
When assigning names to objects, programmers adhere to a set of rules and conventions which help to standardize code and make it more accessible to everyone. Here are some naming rules and conventions that you should know:

Names cannot contain spaces.

Names may be a mixture of upper and lower case characters.

Names can’t start with a number but may contain numbers after the first character.

Variable names and function names should be written in snake_case, which means that all letters are lowercase and words are separated using an underscore. 

Descriptive names are better than cryptic abbreviations because they help other programmers (and you) read and interpret your code. For example, student_name is better than sn. It may feel excessive when you write it, but when you return to your code you’ll find it much easier to understand.

Annotating variables by type
Type annotation allows you to clearly communicate the argument types and return type of functions in your code. It’s like giving yourself and other developers hints about what kind of data the variable is supposed to hold. This has several benefits: It reduces the chance of common mistakes, helps in documenting your code for others to reuse, and allows integrated development software (IDEs) and other tools to give you better feedback.

In this reading, you will learn more about annotating variables by type and best practices.

How to annotate a variable 
Think of annotating a variable as if you were to put a label on a container—and anything in that container should hold what the label is describing. Let’s take a look at an example:

name: str = “Betty”

The variable name is declared using a colon (:) which is annotated with the type str, indicating that the name variable should hold a string value. And look, it does! Betty—or any name for that matter—is a string, and we know it’s a string because it is in quotes. Let’s look at another example where a variable holds an integer value.

age: int = 34

In this example, age is the variable, and int is the type annotation that provides you and other developers a hint that the age variable should store an integer value.

Pro tip: If a function expects a list of integers, you should annotate it as List[int], not just List. Being specific with your types can catch more potential bugs and misunderstandings.

Dynamic typing
Many languages, such as C# or Java, require you to declare variable types, but not Python. One of the great things about Python is that the type of variable can change over time as new values are assigned to it. For example: 

a = 3                  #a is an integer

a = “Hello world”      #a is now a string

Dynamic typing allows programmers to write code more quickly and offers flexibility because you don’t have to explicitly declare the type of variable.

Note: Python decides which of the built-in types the variable is and, therefore, how it should behave. For more information, refer to this article on 
Built-in types
. 

Duck typing
This form of typing comes from the saying, “If it walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it must be a duck.” Python will infer the variable type at runtime and decide which behaviors are available to the given object.

a = “Hello world”      #looks like a string

Annotating variables with type comments
Another way to annotate variables is to use type comments where the interpreter will ignore the comments.

captain = “Picard”      # type: str

Note: This way of annotating variables might be useful for cases when you need to know what types belong to which variables but do not want the overhead of using a line interpreter (linter) or IDE on this specific variable.

Annotating variables directly
Let’s use the same example above to annotate a variable directly.

captain: str = “Picard”

Note: You might hear annotating variables directly called the more “modern” way to annotate a variable.

Another advantage is that you can use automated tools such as linters, or mypy, to check types to make code more resilient. Most modern IDEs, such as VS Code and JetBrains PyCharm, scan code for type annotations and can use it to help you write better code more quickly!

How type annotations affect runtime behavior
Any time a library is called, or an IDE works to scan your code, more computational overhead is required.

Pro tip: Be strategic when annotating variables by type. This can add unnecessary overhead when overused.

Type annotation is less common with Python users in data science, as it can be burdensome to manually map data every time a new set of data comes in. On the other hand, when doing object-oriented programming or writing functions, using type annotations becomes extremely important because it helps clarify code since you are dealing with more than just the built-in types.

Key takeaways
Annotating variables by type provides programmers with benefits to make the code easier to read and understand. Python provides different options on how to annotate variables, so choose how you want to annotate them. Just be cautious of over-annotating, creating unnecessary overhead to your code.
