Key Terms
Programming code - Programming code is a set of written computer instructions, guided by rules, using a computer programming language. It might help to think of the computer instructions as a detailed, step-by-step recipe for performing tasks. The instructions tell computers and machines how to perform an action. Programming code may also be referred to as source code or scripts.

Programming languages - Programming languages are similar to human spoken languages in that they both use syntax and semantics. Programming languages are used to write computer programs.  Some common programming languages include Python, Java, C, C++, C#, and R.

Syntax - Syntax is a set of rules for how statements are constructed in both human and computer languages. Programming syntax includes rules for the order of elements in programming instructions, as well as the use of special characters and their placements in statements. This concept is similar to the syntax rules for grammar and punctuation in human language.

Semantics - Semantics refers to the intended meaning or effect of statements, or collections of words, in both human and computer languages. Semantic errors are also referred to as logical errors.

Computer program - A computer program is a step-by-step list of instructions that a computer follows to reach an intended goal. It is important to be clear and precise about the actions a computer program is supposed to perform because computers will do exactly what they are instructed to do. Computer programs can be long, complex, and accomplish a variety of tasks. They are often developed by computer programmers and software engineers, but anyone can learn to create them. Computer programs may involve a structured development cycle. They can be written in a wide variety of programming languages, such as Python, Java, C++,  R, and more. The completed format of a program is often a single executable file.

Script - Scripts are usually shorter and less complex than computer programs. Scripts are often used to automate specific tasks. However, they can be used for complex tasks if needed. Scripts are often written by IT professionals, but anyone can learn to write scripts. Scripts have a shorter, less structured development cycle as compared to the development of complex computer programs and software. Scripts can be written in a variety of programming languages, like Python, Javascript, Ruby, Bash, and more. Some scripting languages are interpreted languages and are only compatible with certain platforms.

Automation - Automation is used to replace a repetitive manual step with one that happens automatically. 

Output - Output is the end result of a task performed by a function or computer program. Output can include a single value, a report, entries into a database, and more. 

Input - Input is information that is provided to a program by the end user. Input can be text, voice, images, biometrics, and more.   

Functions - A function is a reusable block of code that performs a specific task.

Variables - Variables are used to temporarily store changeable values in programming code. 

A Note on Syntax and Code Blocks
When writing code, using correct syntax is critical. Even a small typo, like a missing parenthesis bracket or an extra comma, can cause a syntax error and the code won't execute at all. If your code results in an error or an exception, pay close attention to syntax and watch out for minor mistakes. A single wrong character could take hours to identify in long code so it is important to be mindful of syntax when writing code. 

Common syntax errors:
Misspellings

Incorrect indentations

Missing or incorrect key characters:

Bracket types - ( curved ), [ square ], { curly }

Quote types - "straight-double" or 'straight-single', “curly-double” or ‘curly-single’

Block introduction characters, like colons - :

Data type mismatches

Missing, incorrectly used, or misplaced Python reserved words

Using the wrong case (uppercase/lowercase) - Python is a case-sensitive language 

If your syntax is correct, but the script has unexpected behavior or output, this may be due to a semantic problem. Syntax is like the vocabulary, grammar, spelling, and punctuation of code. Semantics are the meaning and logic of coded statements. It is possible to have syntactically correct code that runs successfully, but doesn't do what we want it to do.

Common semantic errors:
Creating functional code, but getting unintentional output

Poor logic structures in the design of the code

When working with the code blocks in exercises for this course, be mindful of syntax and semantic (logic) errors, along with the overall result of your code. Just because you fixed an error doesn't mean that the code will have the desired effect when it runs! Once you’ve fixed an error in your code, don't forget to click Run to check your work.

 Study Guide: Introduction to Python
This study guide provides a quick-reference summary of what you learned in this lesson and serves as a guide for the upcoming practice quiz.  

In this segment, you learned that Python is a general purpose programming language that is commonly used for scripting and automation, as well as to develop a wide variety of applications. Python is compatible with most operating systems, including Windows, Linux, and Mac OS, and is updated every few years. Python can also run on a variety of machines, such as servers, workstations, PCs, mobile devices, IoT, and more.

Python is widely used in the IT field, including IT support, system administration, web development, machine learning, data analytics, and more. Python can be used to calculate statistics, run your e-commerce site, process images, interact with web services, and do a whole host of other tasks. Python instructions resemble the English language, which is what makes it easier to learn and understand when compared to other programming languages.

Python is:

a general purpose scripting language;

a popular language used to code a variety of applications;

a frequently used tool for automation;

a cross-platform compatible language;

a beginner-friendly language.

Python is not: 

a platform-specific / OS-specific scripting language;

a client-side scripting language;

a purely object-oriented programming language.


Code comparison with Python
You will be learning about both Python and Bash scripting in this program. The following code illustrates a syntax difference between the two languages:

 Print to screen in Python  

 Print to screen in Bash  

>> print("Hello, how are you?")

Hello, how are you?

>> echo Hello, how are you?

Hello, how are you?


  Key Terms
Platform-specific / OS specific scripting language - Platform-specific scripting languages, like PowerShell (for Windows) and Bash (for Linux), are used by system administrators on those platforms. 

Client-side scripting language - Client-side scripting languages, like JavaScript, are used mostly for web programming. The scripts are transferred from a web server to the end-user’s internet browser, then executed in the browser.

Machine language - Machine language is the lowest-level computer language. It communicates directly with computing machines in binary code (ones and zeros). In binary code, one equals a pulse of electricity and zero equals no electrical pulse. Machine language instructions are made from translating languages like Python into complex patterns of ones and zeros. 

Cross-platform language - Programming language that is compatible with one or more platforms / operating systems (e.g., Windows, Linux, Mac, iOS, Android).

Object-oriented programming language - In object-oriented programming languages, most coding elements are considered to be objects with configurable properties. For example, a form field is an object that can be configured to accept only dates as input in the mm/dd/yy format, and can be configured to read from and write to a specific database. 

Python interpreter - An interpreter is the program that reads and executes Python code by translating Python code into computer instructions.

Resources
For additional Python practice, the following links will take you to several popular online interpreters and codepads:

Welcome to Python
 

Online Python Interpreter
 

Create a new Repl
 

Online Python-3 Compiler (Interpreter)

Compile Python 3 Online

Your Python Trinket

 
